# CHAPTER 23: JUMPING BACK AND FORTH, CHALLENGE 3

_**PROMPT:** For fun, try to invent a useful novel control flow feature for Lox._

What about a return function that takes a function name and pops back up the call stack and returns out of the function with the matching name? Something like this? (in JS as opposed to lox because lox lacks lambdas so writing this kind of code is already a hassle)

```ts
function indexOf(array, value) {
  array.forEach((arrayItem, index) => {
    if (arrayItem === value) return<indexOf> index; // Pops out of this forEach callback and returns index as return value of indexOf
  });
  return -1;
}
```

I get the sense that people are moving away from traditional for-loops and toward these array methods (not that that trend is itself a good reason to introduce new syntax). One shortfall of these array methods is that you can't `break` out of them like you can from a traditional for-loop.

Syntax is negotiable, this is clear enough to demonstrate what I mean. This clashes with the old TS type-assertion syntax, which would probably be a concern if I actually proposed it, but it means in the meantime I can use TS syntax highlighting

```ts
// Alternative syntaxes:
return value to funcName;
return funcName value; // Is `await` or `yield` etc. a valid function name? Eh, smarter people than I have tackled that problem already
returnTo funcName value;
```

Would this get messy with recursion?

```ts
function countDown(n) {
  if (n <= 0) return<countDown>; // Does this pop all the way up the nearest countDown? The farthest one? Is there an observable difference in this case?
  countDown(n - 1);
}
```

I have a feeling I'd have to play with some more complex examples, maybe mutual-recursion and stuff, before I really nailed down what would be the most useful semantics

Can't be used with anonymous functions, but you can always use a different syntax to name your callbacks, a la

```ts
function a() {
  myArray.forEach(function b(item) {
    return<a> item;
  })
}
```

Requires knowledge of the callstack. If the function isn't running in the context you think it is, you may inadvertently end up returning out of another function with the same name? Should the function-name part accept a reference to a function instead? (or an expression that resolves to a reference to a function?) That might get less useful with currying/bound functions

```ts
function parent() {
  myArray.forEach(function child(item) {
    return<someCondition ? parent : someOtherFunction> item;
  })
}
```

What if it only worked with functions that are _textually_ parents of the current return function? I don't think that works, since textually nested child functions are thunks that may run long after the parent has returned

```ts
function genFunc() {
  return function func() {
    return<genFunc> 'this is not a function';
  }
}

const myFunc = genFunc();
myFunc(); // Retroactively changes the previous line to return something else????
```

I suppose this is a similar class of problem to `new Promise(resolve => { resolve(); resolve(); })` and is probably trivial to disallow/ignore, but is this semantic useful often enough to justify it in the first place? With callstack-based, at least we can be sure that there IS a parent caller function, although it may have nothing to do with the textual source code. The only reason it works wither way with Array#forEach is because we know forEach immediately executes its callback (blocking, basically), but with an async function or something, everything starts to fall apart

Maybe what I actually want is a more powerful `break` statement that can cross function boundaries? Eh I've wasted enough time on this side-challenge